release: v1.24.0 (#11435)
filecoin-project/lotus: CHANGELOG.md

system            bafk2bzacebfqrja2hip7esf4eafxjmu6xcogoqu5xxtgdg7xa5szgvvdguchu
account           bafk2bzaceboftg75mdiba7xbo2i3uvgtca4brhnr3u5ptihonixgpnrvhpxoa
init              bafk2bzacebllyegx5r6lggf6ymyetbp7amacwpuxakhtjvjtvoy2bfkzk3vms
```

## Migration  

We are expecting a heavier than nommal state migration for this upgrade due to the amount of the state changes introduced for miner sector info. (This a similar migration node as the Shark upgrade, however, we have introduced a couple migration performance optimization since then for a smoother upgrade.)

All node operators, including storage providers, should be aware that ONE pre-migration is being scheduled 180 epochs before the upgrade, around 2023-12-12T12:00:00Z. It will take around 20-30min for the migration and less than 30sec for the final migration, depending on the amount of the historical state in the node blockstore and the hardwaree specs the node is running on. During this time, expect slower block validation times, increased CPU and memory usage, and longer delays for API queries (during our testing, it topped out about 205 RAM(htop) on a 1TiB box).

> We recommend node operators (who haven't enbabled splistore `universal` mode) that do not care about historical chain states, to prune the chain blockstore by syncing from a snapshot 1-2 days before the upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend node operators (who haven't enabled splitstore `discard` mode) that do not care about historical chain states, to prune the chain blockstore by syncing from a snapshot 1-2 days before the upgrade.
```

Note to full archival node operators: you may expect it takes some time  for the node to complete the final migration, during this period your node will fall out of sync and your chain service may have some disruption. However, you can expect the node to catch up soon after the migration completes. You can test out the migration by running the following on your node in offline mode:

1. `lotus chain head | head -n1`
2. Stop Lotus daemon

> 3. `./lotus-shed migrate-state --repo=[path-to-your-lotus-repo] 22 [output-of-step-1]`

Reviewer: The 22 here should be 21.

We can also add a link to the Lotus docs for testing this: https://lotus.filecoin.io/kb/test-migration/

> 1. `lotus chain head | head -n1`
> 2. Stop Lotus daemon
> 3. `./lotus-shed migrate-state --repo=[path-to-your-lotus-repo] 22 [output-of-step-1]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `lotus chain head | head -n1`
2. Stop Lotus daemon
3. `./lotus-shed migrate-state --repo=[path-to-your-lotus-repo] 21 [output-of-step-1]`

You can check out the [tutorial for benchmarking the network migration here.](https://lotus.filecoin.io/kb/test-migration/)
```

   - feat: implement Synthetic PoRep ([filecoin-project/lotus#11258](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11258))
   - chore: config: Update todo in UseSyntheticPoRep ([filecoin-project/lotus#11297](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11297))
   
## Improvements
- Backport: feat: sealing: Switch to calling PreCommitSectorBatch2 ([filecoin-project/lotus#11215](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11215))

## Dependencies
- github.com/filecoin-project/go-amt-ipld/v4 (v4.0.0 -> v4.2.0)
- chore: deps: update FFI, FVM, and actors ([filecoin-project/lotus#11310](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11310))
- chore: deps: update to final actors ([filecoin-project/lotus#11330](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11440))
- chore: deps: update to go-state-types v0.12.8 ([filecoin-project/lotus#11339](https://github.com/filecoin-project/lotus/pull/11437))
- chore: deps: update libp2p to v0.30.0 #11434

## Snapshots 

> The [Forest team](https://filecoinproject.slack.com/archives/C029LPZ5N73) at Chainsafe has launched a brand new lightweight snapshot service that is backed up by forest nodes! This is a great alternative service along with the fil-infra one, and it is compatiable with lotus! We recommend lotus users to check it out [here](https://docs.filecoin.io/networks/mainnet#resources)! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Forest team](https://filecoinproject.slack.com/archives/C029LPZ5N73) at Chainsafe has launched a brand new lightweight snapshot service that is backed up by forest nodes! This is a great alternative service along with the fil-infra one, and it is compatible with lotus! We recommend lotus users to check it out [here](https://docs.filecoin.io/networks/mainnet#resources)! 
```
